# Topic: Network Topology

1) It is arrangement of devices in a network.

*Physical Topology:* The actual physical layout of cables and devices.  
# (Bus, Star, Mesh, Ring, Tree, Hybrid are physical topologies)

*Logical Topology:* How data moves across the network, regardless of physical layout.

*Point To Point Topology*
simplest communication between two nodes, in which one is the sender and the other one is the receiver.

*Mesh Topology*
Every device is connected to another via dedicated channels. These channels are known as links

*Star Topology*
all the devices are connected to a single hub through a cable. This hub is the central node and all other nodes are connected to the central node.

*Bus Topology*
Bus Topology is a network type in which every computer and network device is connected to a single cable. It is bi-directional. It is a multi-point connection and a non-robust topology because if the backbone fails the topology crashes.

*Ring Topology*
In a Ring Topology, it forms a ring connecting devices with exactly two neighboring devices. A number of repeaters are used for Ring topology with a large number of nodes, because if someone wants to send some data to the last node in the ring topology with 100 nodes, then the data will have to pass through 99 nodes to reach the 100th node. Hence to prevent data loss repeaters are used in the network.

*Tree Topology*
Tree topology is the variation of the Star topology. This topology has a hierarchical flow of data.

*Hybrid Topology*
Hybrid Topology is the combination of all the various types of topologies we have studied above.